Question 1
4 / 4 pts
You have been asked to serve as project manager for a pilot project at Stevens (NTTI – No Textbooks, "Tablets" Instead!!)

 

 The project is to assess the effectiveness of a “no-textbook concept” by creating a trial with three semester-long classes that will not use traditional paper textbooks but rather use "tablets" to access online textbooks and other course readings…. That is the only guidance you have been given. You need to make it happen…. You will have a “core team” to work with, but for now you are asked what the plan may entail…..

 

 a. Define  a measure of “success” for this project (brief..1 to 2 sentences MAX), and 2 assumptions

b. Show part of a simple work breakdown structure  with 2 deliverables and 3 work packages/tasks per deliverable – for a portion of this project  (pick any part that you would be most comfortable with)

c. Identify two risks,  score them as we have done in class, and select one risk response for the top risk

Your Answer:
A: 
Measure of success-
The project is Successfully adopted in the school. And everyone in the school is using it.
Assumptions-
1) Every student in the school must have their own tablet or device or the university will provide it to them.
2) The college hosts a server which has all the files uploaded.
B)
1.Initialization 
1.1 Evaluation & Recommendations
1.2 Develop Project Charter
1.3 Project Charter Signed/Approved
2.Planning
2.1 Create Preliminary Scope Statement
2.2 Project core team kickoff meeting
2.3 Develop project plan
3.Implementation
3.1 Verify & Validate User Requirements
3.1.1 Design system
3.1.2 Data model
3.1.3 Student-admin login
3.1.4 Design approval
3.2 Development 
3.2.1 Procure Hardware/Software
3.2.2 Create user interface
3.2.3 Collaborate existing system with the new system i.e. NTTI
4.Monitoring 
4.1 Project Status Meetings
4.1.1 Weekly meetings
4.1.2 Monthly meetings
4.2 Risk Management
4.2.1 Change control
4.2.2 Change control meetings 
4.2.3 Project document updates
5. Closure
5.1 Update Files/Records
5.2 Gain formal acceptance 
C:
Risk	Probability of occurrence 	Probability of impact	Overall	Risk Response 
Students unable to understand concepts using NTTI 

9	9	81	More in depth and interactive Video tutorials for clearing doubts in concepts.
Student and faculty unable to adopt the new system	9	10	90	Introduce 1 on 1 training sessions for faculty and class wise sessions for students .
 
Question 2
3.25 / 4 pts
You have been asked to improve an organizations’ project management practices. To do this you have been supplied observations from several project close-out reports (from different large projects). Pick 4 of the 7 items and, for each, determine :

a. Whether the observation indicates a project weakness - (yes/no/cannot determine)

b. Succinct rationale for your reasoning using PM principles (not just opinion)

c. BRIEF recommendation for future projects

Observation

 

Weakness?

 (yes/no/ Cannot

 Determine)

 

 

Formal evidence for your opinion using PM principles

 (short succinct statement)

 

 

 

 

Recommendation Going Forward

 

(Next Projects)

 

 

A - Conflicts expressed among team members early in planning – the PM “forced” resolution

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

B - Excessive change requests (large quantity) and it was unclear if these represented changes or new scope

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

C - PM did not perform tasks on the project -- PM spent time communicating and integrating others’ work

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

D - The project was completed on time and budget, but stakeholders were unaware of its existence

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

E - The project met the plan but stakeholders deemed it irrelevant to the business

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

F - Functional managers constantly pulled resources off this project onto other “higher-priority” efforts

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

G - This PM spent most time alone, perfecting and updating the planning documents.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Your Answer:
Observation

Weakness?

 (yes/no/ Cannot

 Determine)

Formal evidence for your opinion using PM principles	Recommendation Going Forward
A - Conflicts expressed among team members early in planning – the PM “forced” resolution

yes	Conflicts should be addressed with discussions and reasoning sessions. PM should sit with the team members to resolve the same.	Regular scheduled meetings with the team members for project status, conflict resolution, and further planning.
B - Excessive change requests (large quantity) and it was unclear if these represented changes or new scope	Yes	It is the responsibility of PM to accommodate the changes while keeping the scope in check. PM should meet with the stakeholders for making things clear to reduce the number of changes in the future.	Regular meetings with the care team and the stakeholders. Making requirements clear and whether more resources will be needed to accommodate the highly changing requirements. 
E - The project met the plan but stakeholders deemed it irrelevant to the business	Cannot Determine	The stakeholders decide whether the project is relevant or irrelevant to their business. But it is also a responsibility of the PM to create projects which holds some value to the company. 	Every project is a learning experience. Lessons should be learnt, and should concentrate more on the stakeholders motives and interests in future projects.
F - Functional managers constantly pulled resources off this project onto other “higher-priority” efforts	Yes	The stakeholders decide which project is more important to them. which is a priority and which is not. But many a times the PM won't be able to cope up with this constant pulling off of resources. Which could threaten the project altogether. 	Planning is the key. Determine the future resources other project might require in advance. Keep additional resources In advance.
G - This PM spent most time alone, perfecting and updating the planning documents.

No	Final touches in the documents are done here. It is the task of PM.	It is the PMs responsibility. No change needed.
 
Question 3
3 / 3 pts
 

You have been asked to manage a tiny systems project that has been broken up into four deliverables. Each deliverable is scheduled to take 5 days and budgeted as $6000 worth of work. At the end of day 10, you have spent $11,000, and 1.5 deliverables are complete.

Calculate the earned value amounts, and describe project status.

Planned Value

Earned Value

Actual Cost

Cost Variance

Schedule Variance

 

Your Answer:
Given - At the end of day 10, 2 deliverables should have been completed( since each deliverable is scheduled to take 5 days)

Solution-

Planned Value= 6,000*2=12,000$

Earned Value=6000*1.5=9,000$(As 1.5 deliverables are complete)

Actual Cost=11,000$

Cost Variance=Earned Value-Actual Cost=9,000-11,000= -2,000$

Schedule Variance=Earned Value-Planned Value=9,000-12,000= -3000$

CPI(Cost performance Index)=Earned Value/Actual Cost=9,000/11,000=9/11 < 1

SPI(Scheduled performance Index)=Earned value/Planned value=9,000/12,000=9/12 < 1

Project Status= Over budget and behind schedule.

 
Question 4
4 / 4 pts
For the following list of high-level project activities, please ….

Task

Duration (Weeks)

Predecessor

A Needs Assessment

1

-

B Requirements Definition

4

A

C Vendor Engagement

4

B

D Design

2

B

E Prototype (custom interface)

3

B

F Vendor Delivery

4

C,D

G Internal Build

1

E

H Integration and Test

2

G,F

a. Identify Critical path and duration

b. Your sponsor has reviewed your duration and asked that you reduce it by 2 weeks… According to project management, what two options could be considered to accelerate schedule (provide formal PM terminology)… and one SPECIFIC example of the acceleration approach

c. Ignoring your answer to B  (that is, assume no schedule acceleration was made), if the duration of task D changes to 5 weeks what is the COMPLETE impact to the project?

Your Answer:
A) Critical path- 

A-B-C-F-H (15 weeks)

B)

Fast tracking and Crashing. Adding more resources to B and H for quickening the processes.

C)

Schedule increased by 1 week. Critical path duration increased to 16 weeks.
